# Origin Subsquid

### [Design Decisions Notion Document](https://www.notion.so/originprotocol/Subsquid-Design-Decisions-04ef82ae0d6848d1b14de893e9929ce4#d8e8d367069c4a619809e926f72db074)

## Release Checklist

Ensure we don't miss anything on a release by following this checklist.

- [ ] Create version branch (e.g. `v25`)
- [ ] Update squid.yaml version
- [ ] Deploy (`sqd deploy .`)
- [ ] Commit & Push
- [ ] Wait for processing to complete
- [ ] Set to production at https://app.subsquid.io/squids
- [ ] Check functionality of front-ends
- [ ] Update Grafana Subsquid datasource: https://origindefi.grafana.net/connections/datasources
- [ ] Notify in #defi-data if important
- [ ] Hibernate previous version(s)
- [ ] Delete old versions (keep recently hibernated version as a backup)

If a version has issues in deployment, fix it in the branch and later *cherry-pick* those fixes back to `main`.

## Env Options

```shell
DEBUG_PERF=true sqd process:oeth     # Run with performance numbers
BLOCK_FROM=18421105 sqd process:oeth # Start processing at block 18421105
BLOCK_TO=18421105 sqd process:oeth   # Process up to block 18421105
```

## Frequent Commands

```shell
yarn codegen           # Generate Schema code
sqd typegen            # Generate ABI code
sqd down               # Bring down squid container
sqd up                 # Bring up squid container
sqd process:oeth       # Run OETH processor
sqd process:ousd       # Run OUSD processor
sqd process:mainnet      # Run misc processor
sqd migration:generate # Generate migration (sqd down && sqd up first)
```

## Quickstart

```bash
# 0. Install @subsquid/cli a.k.a. the sqd command globally
npm i -g @subsquid/cli

# 1. Retrieve the template
sqd init my_squid_name -t evm
cd my_squid_name

# 2. Install dependencies
npm ci

# 3. Start a Postgres database container and detach
sqd up

# 4. Build and start the processor
sqd process:oeth

# 5. The command above will block the terminal
#    being busy with fetching the chain data,
#    transforming and storing it in the target database.
#
#    To start the graphql server open the separate terminal
#    and run
sqd serve
```

A GraphiQL playground will be available at [localhost:4350/graphql](http://localhost:4350/graphql).

## Dev flow

### 1. Define database schema

Start development by defining the schema of the target database via `schema.graphql`.
Schema definition consists of regular graphql type declarations annotated with custom directives.
Full description of `schema.graphql` dialect is available [here](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/schema-file).

### 2. Generate TypeORM classes

Mapping developers use TypeORM [EntityManager](https://typeorm.io/#/working-with-entity-manager)
to interact with target database during data processing. All necessary entity classes are
generated by the squid framework from `schema.graphql`. This is done by running `yarn codegen`
command.

NOTE: We don't directly use the `sqd codegen` command because we generate our schema.graphql file first in
the `yarn codegen` script.

### 3. Generate database migrations

All database changes are applied through migration files located at `db/migrations`.
`squid-typeorm-migration(1)` tool provides several commands to drive the process.

```bash
## drop create the database
sqd down
sqd up

## replace any old schemas with a new one made from the entities
sqd migration:generate
```

See [docs on database migrations](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/db-migrations) for more details.

### 4. Import ABI contract and generate interfaces to decode events

It is necessary to import the respective ABI definition to decode EVM logs. One way to generate a type-safe facade class
to decode EVM logs is by placing the relevant JSON ABIs to `./abi`, then using `squid-evm-typegen(1)` via an `sqd`
script:

```bash
sqd typegen
```

See more details on the [`squid-evm-typegen` doc page](https://docs.subsquid.io/evm-indexing/squid-evm-typegen).

## Project conventions

Squid tools assume a certain [project layout](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/squid-structure):

- All compiled js files must reside in `lib` and all TypeScript sources in `src`.
  The layout of `lib` must reflect `src`.
- All TypeORM classes must be exported by `src/model/index.ts` (`lib/model` module).
- Database schema must be defined in `schema.graphql`.
- Database migrations must reside in `db/migrations` and must be plain js files.
- `sqd(1)` and `squid-*(1)` executables consult `.env` file for environment variables.

## Deploy a new version

- Visit [Squid deploy dashboard](https://app.subsquid.io/squids/deploy)
- Auth with `sqd auth -k sqd_XXX` (key is on squid deploy page)
- Update `squid.yaml` to set the correct version
- Run `sqd deploy .`
- Make branch for new version (eg v9) and push to origin
- Switch back to main branch
